To introduce the information,
I thought I’d show you this here.
This is a blueprint.
Now, this one happens to be—
And I got it from a friend of mine.
This was part of the blueprint
for building world headquarters.
So this is connected
with the Offices/Services Building,
and that’s the blueprint.
Now, what I did learn is that you also have,
in that business,
a lot of them on white background now.
And Webster’s Dictionary
did capture that fact very nicely.
Here’s what it says
in defining a blueprint (that word):
“a photographic print in white
on a bright blue ground
“or blue on a white ground
“used especially for copying maps,
mechanical drawings, and architects’ plans.”
Particularly thinking
of the architects’ plans,
I couldn’t help but think
about Proverbs chapter 8,
and we see there Jesus being referred to
as the “master worker”
and Jehovah is really the Architect.
He’s the Creator.
Now, Jesus was a spiritual success with that
because he followed
the Architect’s direction.
So that’s something
I want you to keep in mind,
and we’ll get to the blueprint,
as I’m calling it, in a moment.
The other definition in Webster’s Dictionary
I thought was pertinent:
“something resembling a blueprint
“(as in serving as a model
“or providing guidance);
“[and I love the one little expression
that appeared after that]
“especially: a detailed plan
or program of action.”
So that’s how I’m borrowing
that word “blueprint”
with these following thoughts
in Peter’s second letter.
So if you could, we’re going to show you
what I’m referring to
as a blueprint for spiritual success.
So in 2 Peter chapter 1,
there are nine things you’ll notice here
that we’re going to emphasize
in verses 5 through 7.
So Peter writes:
“For this very reason,
“put forth all earnest effort
“to supply to your faith virtue,
“to your virtue knowledge,
“to your knowledge self-control,
“to your self-control endurance,
“to your endurance godly devotion,
“to your godly devotion brotherly affection,
to your brotherly affection love.”
So there is the blueprint.
So there are nine thoughts
that are expressed here.
Obviously, there are a lot of other things.
Jehovah gave us the whole Bible,
but this is just a nice memory aid,
a good blueprint,
for you to continue
as spiritual, successful people.
Now, the first one there is “earnest effort.”
That’s basic.
Now, obviously, (and we commend you for it)
you’ve shown earnest effort
just to come this far:
to be invited to Gilead
(to qualify for that),
during your class,
and going out in the ministry on the weekends
—earnest effort.
So you have to continue that.
You’re not born with earnest effort.
That’s a decision you make.
I have to make the same decision.
We’re going to put forth earnest effort.
It starts there.
No effort, no success.
So each individual has to decide,
‘I’m putting forth the earnest effort here,
and I’m going to be a success.’
And then you’ve got the earnest effort,
and then this is what’s involved here
—have the effort to have faith.
Now, time does not allow us
to go into detail on each one of these,
but faith obviously is essential.
Now notice in Hebrews chapter 12
(or, excuse me, 11—Hebrews chapter 11)
and the absolute necessity of faith
to be a spiritual success.
Here in chapter 11, verse 1:
“Faith is the assured expectation
“of what is hoped for,
the evident demonstration
of realities that are not seen.”
So it goes on to emphasize the need for it
and how essential it is
in verse 6 of the same chapter:
“Moreover, without faith
it is impossible
“to please God well,
“for whoever approaches God must believe
“that he is and that he becomes the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
That’s pretty clear.
It’s not easy to misunderstand
what’s being said here.
You have to keep your assured expectation
of what you’ve been hoping for.
That’s part of being a spiritual success.
It can’t weaken.
And how clear does it get?
You can’t please God
and I can’t please God without faith.
That’s serious business.
And none of us want to go
the remainder of the time
not pleasing
our heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
We appreciate that.
In fact, right before he went into that,
in the previous (what we call chapter 10),
notice verse 38 and verse 39
of chapter 10:
“But my righteous one
will live by reason of faith,
“and if he shrinks back,
I have no pleasure in him.
“Now we are not the sort
who shrink back to destruction,
but the sort who have faith
for the preserving of our lives.”
Or, as we’re applying it now,
you’re going to be a spiritual success
and have everlasting life.
But you have to have faith.
It’s crucial.
Now next he mentions “virtue.”
Now, that has to do with moral excellence.
So all of you have that.
Some are single; others of you are married.
You have virtue—that moral excellence.
And when you’re morally excellent,
especially in these last days in this world,
boy, do you stand out.
And what does that do?
It’s not that you’re trying to stand out,
but your moral excellence,
your virtuous behavior,
glorifies God.
And Jehovah appreciates that.
He wants us to succeed at glorifying him.
Bring attention to it.
We don’t joke about immorality.
You know, I mean,
the comedians are full of it.
We’re morally excellent.
We don’t have a thing to do
with “the spirit of the world”—with that.
Now next he mentions here
“knowledge”—“knowledge.”
Well, obviously you appreciate knowledge.
Now, you had a lot of knowledge
before you got to Gilead.
But how many people,
and including in this organization,
have a few months of studying like you have?
It is incredible, isn’t it?
I mean, it’s very hard
for you to explain to others.
You were reading the Bible
before you got here.
Don’t raise your hand
if you didn’t quite get there.
God forgives you.
It depends on circumstances.
But once you were here,
(and we love our instructors here
with theocratic schools,
the Teaching Committee)
you have a whole lot more knowledge
than you did a few months ago.
Don’t you agree?
It’s wonderful.
Now, part of you succeeding is
don’t be satisfied with this downpour
of all this knowledge.
Just take it as valuable.
Keep going, and get some new ideas
on how to research
some things, and go with it.
But if you’re going to be
a spiritual success,
you’ve got to keep taking in the knowledge.
That’s very clear and very simple.
And Jehovah will bless your intake
of knowledge.
There’s no end to it.
It’s wonderful.
You know, it’s just that I’m always amazed.
I’ve always said,
“The more I learn,
the more I realize how little I know.”
Now, that’s not just a statement.
That’s a fact.
And imagine, with Jehovah, it’s just—
But isn’t that great?
It will go on for eternity
—taking in knowledge.
If you do it now,
you’ll be able to do it forever.
What an honor for our heavenly Father!
And then he mentions here
“to your knowledge self-control.”
Now, that’s an aspect
of “the fruitage of the spirit”
that you’re well aware of.
I have to have it.
You have to have it
if you’re going to succeed spiritually
and gain everlasting life.
You need self-control.
And you have to pray about it,
especially in these last days.
In fact, notice
in 1 Corinthians chapter 10,
and we’ll come back here
to Peter right after.
So here in verse 12
—1 Corinthians 10:12:
“So let the one who thinks he is standing
beware that he does not fall.”
So our thinking—
We need to pray for self-control with it
because the Devil and his wicked system
as well as he and his demons
are always trying to affect our thinking.
So in this case here,
you think you’re standing?
Guess what?
You’re about ready to fall.
So by saying,
“Jehovah, please give me self-control”
or you see when the Devil might try
some sort of temptation or whatever
(something you face):
“Give me self-control.
I want to stand firm for you”
—now you’re OK.
The holy spirit will do that.
You’ll have that self-control necessary
to oppose the Devil in his wicked effort
to make it so that we don’t succeed.
So it’s just crucial.
Now next he mentions with self-control
(the blueprint goes on) “endurance.”
We could spend considerable time
just talking about endurance.
It’s absolutely essential.
Some of the things you’ve endured already
in your dedicated life.
And as I told the brothers
in the Coordinators’ Committee Office,
you know, when we’re facing
these disasters and all these things,
and I’ve been telling them
for some time now:
“Cheer up! It’s going to get worse.”
And so we keep a sense of humor with it.
But that’s a fact.
What we’re experiencing right now
in this global pandemic,
I was telling the branch class yesterday:
“Doesn’t bother me.
We’ve been waiting for this.
“We knew things like this
were going to happen.
“Christ Jesus has prepared us.
Where’s the shock?”
Now, you got to think, and Jehovah directs us
with how to deal with these things,
but we endure.
And that’s why Jesus—
You remember this in Matthew chapter 24,
and then we’ll come back here
—Matthew chapter 24.
And we’ve been so well-equipped.
It’s all here so that we can be a success.
Verse 13 of Matthew chapter 24:
“But the one who has endured to the end
“[not who showed some endurance,
“no, the one who has endured to the end]
will be saved.”
So that’s what we beg Jehovah: “Help us.”
It’s part of the blueprint.
We’re going to endure to the end.
That’s it.
Whatever we have to face,
with Jehovah’s support,
we’re going to succeed.
Now after endurance,
he mentions “godly devotion.”
Now, The Watchtower has commented
on this in years past.
And it’s a beautiful thing to keep in mind
why this is so crucial to spiritual success.
It’s captured nicely here
in the revised translation—godly devotion.
So the thinking there and to try to convey
what was coming across here for all of us
is you’re devoted
or I’m devoted to Jehovah personally
—this attachment to him personally.
So some of you are married couples.
Well, you want your mate
to be attached to your God
that you worship together.
That’s what is going to make a success.
Godly devotion
—being personally attached to Jehovah.
It affects every aspect of our life.
We’re attached to him.
It’s personal.
It’s just something special,
and everyone should have that feeling
of not just devotion,
no, but attachment to him.
We love him.
We’re whole-souled.
‘You get exclusive devotion.’
Right now, just thinking about him,
and you can’t see them,
but I got goose bumps on my back,
thinking about the love for him
—the attachment to him.
And how nice when,
if you are married, your mate has that.
You’re going to succeed.
Devotion to Him personally
for all that he has shown and will show
—that’s just very personal.
Now next
he attaches after godly devotion,
“brotherly affection”
—“brotherly affection.”
So when you think about that now—
And I appreciated Brother Noumair’s comments.
I saw this yesterday while with you
for a couple of lectures
and then saw some of you
after your last class,
and Brother Noumair mentioned
how you enjoy each other’s company.
Well, what he was describing
was your brotherly affection for each other.
It’s real; it’s genuine.
You have that brotherly affection.
That should be true in all the congregations.
You’ve displayed it.
Well, to succeed,
you’ve got to continue to do that.
So here’s something
for you to think about, though,
because commendably
you’ve done well with that.
I’m sure you
are going to take it back with you
—this need for godly devotion.
You’re going to do that.
I’m counting on it.
However, here’s a thought for you
from 1 Thessalonians chapter 4
—1 Thessalonians
chapter 4.
It’s just something to consider
(you soon-to-be graduates),
and take it with you to your assignments.
First Thessalonians 4:9
and then here in the 10th verse as well:
“However, concerning brotherly love,
“you do not need us to write to you,
“for you yourselves
are taught by God to love one another.
“In fact, you are doing so
“toward all the brothers in all of Macedonia.
“[Now notice this.
This is a thought-provoking point.]
“But we urge you, brothers,
to go on doing so in fuller measure.”
Whoa!
So that applies to you too.
You’ve shown it during your class.
But I want you to think about it
from time to time
so that you’re a spiritual success.
You’ve got to ask yourself,
individually particularly,
maybe as a couple if you wish,
are you doing it in fuller measure?
It’s a lot to think about,
seeing as things get more and more critical.
Good point.
We need this godly expression here
of our brotherly affection.
We love our brothers.
We forgive each other, but we have this.
And it’s got to get fuller,
and we know you’re going to do that.
You’ll think about it.
Just examine yourself
from time to time with this blueprint.
Are you showing brotherly affection
in fuller measure?
And you might get back—
I know we’re all different.
I don’t know your circumstances,
obviously God does and Christ Jesus does,
but some might say:
‘Boy, she’s just filled
with brotherly affection.
‘It’s amazing.
‘I don’t remember that about her
before (or him).’
Now sisters, I don’t want you
to feel like I’m picking on you.
The same applies to the brothers.
But show love and brotherly affection
in fuller measure.
It’s something
to think about from time to time.
Now back here
in Peter’s second letter,
this is the last thought
that he puts into the blueprint:
“to your godly devotion brotherly affection,”
and then notice,
“to your brotherly affection love.”
So that has reference to a·gaʹpe.
So brotherly affection
is a unique expression of brothers
—that love for them.
But this is a principled love, as you know.
So it’s governed by principle.
And that’s the kind of love
we need to keep on preaching
because people
are going to get more and more
distinct with their contempt for us.
It’s growing in most countries.
Well, the a·gaʹpe is going to move us
to keep on going.
No matter how they mistreat us
and what they say or do,
we’re going to show love
until Jehovah says:
“That’s it. No more preaching.”
And think about our time right now
because of this threat.
There are these national security problems
in different countries.
Metropolitan preaching
in many countries is not happening.
Door-to-door preaching is a problem.
The Memorial campaign is—
Different things are going on.
Jehovah has given his spirit
to the Governing Body
to try to do the right thing
—to respect Caesar and obey Him as our ruler.
It makes you think:
‘What are the inactive
or others that have known about the truth—?
What are they thinking?’
Well, we hope the best for them.
“But you better move.
This is serious business.”
Our a·gaʹpe love is going to help us
to try to reach out to them.
Now is the time for action
because the day is coming.
That’s it; it’s over.
Once that great tribulation
breaks out, that’s it.
We can’t help.
It’s over for them.
So those are the nine parts
of the blueprint for spiritual success.
Now notice the thought here
(and that’s what we want to conclude with)
in verse 8:
“For if these things exist in you
“[now notice] and overflow,
“they will prevent you
from being either inactive
“or unfruitful
regarding the accurate knowledge
of our Lord Jesus Christ.”
So there it is.
So we’re just exhorting
you precious ones soon to graduate:
Don’t let it just exist (the blueprint).
Let all of this overflow,
and you are guaranteed to be
a spiritual success.